#summary [ChangeLog] Log of changes made to this project.

_*20110615-4*_
 * French translation added.
 * Italian translation updated.

_*20110615-3*_
 * Italian translation added.

_*20110615-2*_
 * Spanish translation added.

_*20110615-1*_
 * Bugfixes only.

_*20110615-0*_
 * Lots of improvements regarding usability at the menus; several buttons have been reassigned, please see the [UserGuide].
 * SET is no longer needed to apply settings or save changes in any menu.
 * The number of available presets has been increased to 9.
 * Latest preset "used" (loaded or saved) is highlighted in the presets' menus.
 * The presets' menus can now display file-names instead of user-defined names (useful to identify which file contains what preset).
 * When moving the main dial out of A-DEP and back, the last preset used is recalled completely (not just the AE mode).
 * White balance is automatically changed to "custom" when color temperature is changed.

_*20110517-0*_
 * Multi-language support (only English and German right now).
 * Presets have been improved, there are more options related to them, and now they can be renamed and reordered.
 * Some enhancements for the scripts: 
    * Disable MLU and auto power-off during the execution of a script.
    * Dim LCD down during the execution of a script.
    * EAEB exposures up to 16 minutes.
 * Other minor additions and fixes.

_*20110425-1*_
 * Fixed wrong version number displayed.

_*20110425-0*_
 * New "Presets" feature.
 * More info (BodyID) at the INFO dialog.
 * AF settings moved to the shortcuts dialog and expanded.

_*20110412-0*_
 * The shortcuts menu acts now like a real menu, only that it can be reordered.
 * Optionally, the shortcuts menu can be disabled, and then the DP button will change to an intermediate ISO.
 * Sub-menus at the settings menu are now navigated using the front wheel.
 * Displayed release count and 400plus version at the INFO menu.
 * Added new developers menu to enter / leave the factory mode or activate the debug mode (use with care, or even better, do not use at all).
 * And lots of other minor improvements and bug fixes.

_*20110403-0*_
 * Added the configuration of the shortcuts menu.
 * Added a couple of new shortcuts.

_*20110328-0*_
 * Added the shortcuts menu.

_*20110323-0*_
 * Added an option to run the Wave script endlessly.

_*20110318-2*_
 * Fixed another bug (flash-related options act inverted).

_*20110318-1*_
 * Fixed a bug (highlighted line does not match active line when returning to menu).

_*20110318-0*_
 * New menu infrastructure.

_*20110314-0*_
 * Code clean-up.

_*20110211-0*_
 * Deactivate UP / DOWN buttons when camera is at the face, to avoid changing ISO / WB with your nose.
 * Better detection of double-event buttons, and some code clean-up.