#summary [Guide][English][Preview] User Guide for 400plus - preview
#labels Preview

= Table of Contents= 

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Introduction =

== What is 400plus? ==

*400plus* is a free firmware enhancement software which offers additional functionality and capabilities to your Canon 400D/XTi camera in both a non-destructive, and non-permanent way. It works by loading into your camera's memory automatically upon boot-up to enhance the native camera firmware but is not a permanent firmware upgrade and can easily be removed. It is designed specifically for the Canon 400D/XTi and will not work with other camera models.

== User guide ==

This wiki page document will serve as the user guide for 400plus. It is assumed in this document that the user has installed 400plus prior to reading this guide and that it is working properly. For information about installing 400plus, please see [FirmwareHackInstallation].

= The menu =

== Accessing the menu ==

To access the 400plus menu, press the `DP` button from the main camera dialog. To exit the 400plus menu, just half-press the shutter release button. _NOTE_: The `DP` button is located on the rear of the camera at the left of the viewfinder (beside the blue printer icon with the squiggly arrow line next to it).

== Navigating the menu ==

400plus features a multi-page menu, where each page is dedicated to a certain task. To navigate among pages, use the front wheel or the `ZOOM IN` / `ZOOM OUT` buttons (notice the `<<` and `>>` at the header). There is also a method to quickly access any page: press and hold the `AV` button down, then a list of all available pages will appear; now then use the front dial to select a page, and release the `AV` button to jump into it.

To navigate within a page, use the `UP` (`ISO`) and `DOWN` (`WB`) buttons; then use the `LEFT` (`METERING`) and `RIGHT` (`AF`) buttons to change the value of the selected item (press and hold these buttons to change faster). Items with an exclamation mark '`!`' at the left perform an action; activate them with the `SET` button. And Items with a right sign '`>`' are sub-menus; enter them with the `RIGHT` button, and return back to the main page with the `AV` button. Notice that some items can both perform an action and have a sub-menu.

== Configuring the menu ==

While in any page within the menu, you have the ability to change the order of the items for your own personal preference. To do this, just press the `PLAY` button to "grab" an item (a small ">" will be displayed at the left of the item). Now use the `UP` or `DOWN` buttons to position the menu item where you would like it to reside (you will see the menu item move to a new position). Finish the process by pressing the `PLAY` button again to save your changes.

== Pages ==

=== Parameters ===

 * _*AutoISO*_: This sub-menu configures the behavior of [#AutoISO AutoISO].
    * Enabled: when active (set to Yes), AutoISO is enabled.
    * Min ISO: minimum ISO value that AutoISO will use.
    * Max ISO: maximum ISO value that AutoISO will use.
    * Min Tv : minimum shutter speed that AutoISO will try to maintain.
    * Max Av : maximum diaphragm aperture that AutoISO will try to maintain `[*]`.
 * _*ISO*_: Roll through the intermediate ISO values. Values are 100 - 3000.
 * _*Av comp*_: Same as the _standard_ "Av compensation", but extends the range from -6 to +6 EV.
 * _*Flash comp*_: Same as the _standard_ "Flash compensation", but extends the range from -6 to +6 EV.
 * _*Disable flash*_: Force the deactivation of the camera flash even if the flash has already been raised.
 * _*AEB*_: Same as the _standard_ "AEB", but extends the range from -6 to +6 EV.
 * _*Color Temp. (K)*_: Set a user-defined kelvin color temperature value, and change WB to "custom".

_`[*]` Note that the range of values that this parameter admits is limited by the physical capabilities of your lens; on a zoom lens, the maximum aperture of the lens can be different for each zoom position. Please, take this fact into account when setting this value_.

=== Shortcuts Page ===

 * _*Mirror Lockup*_: Enable or disable "Mirror lockup" (same as Custom function - C.Fn 07).
 * _*Flash 2curt (rear curtain flash)*_: Control the shutter curtain sync. value (same as Custom Function - C.Fn 09).
 * _*AF Flash (assist beam)*_: Enable or disable the activation of the flash (during the AF phase), even if it has been raised. Values are Enabled, Disabled, Ext Only (same as Custom Function - C.Fn 05).

=== Scripts Page ===

 * _*Ext. AEB*_: This item launches and configures the [#Extended_AEB Extended AEB] script:
    * Delay: select whether this script should start shooting immediately or wait 2 seconds.
    * Frames: the number of frames (shots) the script should take. Values range from 1 to 9.
    * Step (EV): the separation in EV (exposure value) between each frame (shot). Values range from +1/3EV to +6EV.
    * Direction: specifies the _direction_ of the EAEB sequence.
    * Bulb min: the minimum shutter speed in `BULB` mode. Values range from 1/4000th of a second to 32 minutes.
    * Bulb max: the maximum shutter speed in `BULB` mode. Values range from 1/4000th of a second to 32 minutes.
 * _*Flash AEB*_: This item launches and configures the [#Flash_AEB Flash AEB] script:
 * _*ISO AEB*_: This item launches and configures the [#ISO_AEB ISO AEB] script; each item in the configuration sub-menu indicates whether the camera must fire a shot for that ISO value.
 * _*Interval*_: This item launches and configures the [#Intervalometer Intervalometer] script:
    * Delay: select whether this script should start shooting immediately or wait 2 seconds.
    * Time (s): the interval time (in seconds) between each shot (or group of shots). Values range from 0 to 250.
    * Action: the action to be performed (One Shot, Extended AEB, Flash AEB, ISO AEB).
    * Shots: the total number of frames (shots) the script will take. Values range from 1 to 250 and also include a "No Limit" value to shoot endlessly.
 * _*Handwave*_: This item launches and configures the [#Hand_Waving Hand Waving] script:
    * Delay: select whether this script should take the shot immediately or wait for 2 seconds.
    * Action: the action to be performed (One Shot, Extended AEB, Flash AEB, ISO AEB).
    * Repeat: if active (set to Yes), the script will restart itself after is has completed. This allows you to wave your hand repeatedly to continue using the script.
    * Instant: if selected (set to Yes), the script will take a shot as soon as a hand is detected; otherwise, the script will wait until the hand is removed.
 * _*Timer*_: This item launches and configures the [#Self_Timer Self Timer] script:
    * Delay (s): the time (in seconds) that the script should wait before shooting. Values range from 0 to 250.
    * Action: the action to be performed (One Shot, Extended AEB, Flash AEB, ISO AEB).

=== Info Page ===

 * _*Release count*_: The total number of shots (actuations) made by this camera body.
 * _*Body ID*_: The "BodyID" of the camera body (an internal number, unique to each camera).
 * _*Version*_: The version number of the 400plus software currently installed.

=== Developers Page ===

*NOTE*: The developers page is disabled by default, and must be enabled in the [#Settings_Page settings page] prior to accessing it.

_This Page Is Intentionally Left Blank._

*WARNING*: These options should be used with great care, there is probably little to see here, unless you are developing your own hack.

=== Settings Page ===

 * _*Safety shift*_: When active (set to Yes), and if in `Tv` (resp. `Av`) mode, the camera will change the shutter speed (resp. diaphragm aperture) set by the user to avoid an under/over-exposure, if the value is too small/large for the scene.
 * _*IR remote enable*_: When active (set to Yes), will allow the use of an IR remote. When set to No, this feature is disabled.
 * _*IR remote delay*_: Select whether the camera should take the shot immediately or wait 2 seconds when using an IR remote.
 * _*ISO in viewfinder*_: When active (set to Yes), and if in any creative mode, use the `LEFT` and `RIGHT` buttons to change the ISO while looking through the viewfinder. On Tv and M mode, the new ISO value is also displayed on the viewfinder (over the shutter speed).
 * _*Developers menu*_: When active (set to Yes), the developers menu will be accessible as a page.
 * _*Config. Scripts*_: This sub-menu configures the behavior of [#The_scripts the scripts].
    * Dim LCD down: when active (set to Yes), the LCD brightness value is dimmed to preserve battery life. The value is restored after the script has completed.
    * Disable power-off: when active (set to Yes), the Auto power-off option of the camera is disabled. The value is restored after the script has completed.
 * _*Config. Buttons*:_ In this sub-menu, users can configure the behavior of some special buttons (currently, only the JUMP button, while the camera is in the main dialog, is configurable); the following actions can be assigned to each button:
    * Intermediate ISO: bump ISO by 1/8 EV (see [#Extended_ISOs Notes / Extended ISOs]).
    * Repeat last script: repeat last script executed.
 * _*Config. Presets*_: This sub-menu configures the behavior of [#The_presets the presets]:
    * Use A-DEP: when active (set to Yes), the `A-DEP` mode is hijacked for [#The_presets the presets]. See [#The_A-DEP_mode the A-DEP mode] for more information.
    * Camera: when active (set to Yes), loading a preset recalls the camera's shooting parameters (shutter speed, aperture, ISO, ...).
    * 400plus: when active (set to Yes), loading a preset recalls 400plus' own settings (scripts, ...).
    * Settings: when active (set to Yes), loading a preset recalls some of the rarely changed settings (language, video system, ...).
    * Image: when active (set to Yes), loading a preset recalls image related settings (RAW/JPEG, quality, ...).
    * Custom Fn: when active (set to Yes), loading a preset recalls custom function (C.Fn) settings (mirror lock-up, long-exposure noise-reduction, ...).
 * _*Config. Pages*_: Use this sub-menu to configure the order how the pages must be displayed.

=== Presets Page ===

Use this page to load, save, and rename [#The_presets presets]; the procedure to rename a preset is :

 * Select the "Rename" option in the presets sub-menu.
 * Use `UP` / `DOWN` / `LEFT` / `RIGHT` buttons to select a value.
 * Use the `MENU` button to toggle between lowercase / numbers and uppercase / symbols.
 * Use the `JUMP` button to change the case of the selected value on the name (bottom line).
 * Use the `SET` button to use the selected value in the name and advance the cursor to the next position.
 * Use the front (main) dial or the `ZOOM IN` / `ZOOM OUT` buttons to move the cursor within the preset name line (bottom line).
 * Press the `AV` button again to save your changes and return to the previous menu.

Notice that there is always a number displayed on the left of each preset. This feature is handy when you want to copy presets to and from multiple CF cards and need to know the file names for each of your presets: the number on the left of a feature matches the number of the file created in the CF card.

= The scripts =

When a script starts or stops, a _beep_ will be heard; and while a script is running, the `DP` button will flash (approx. twice per second).

To stop a running script, press the `DP` button again; sometimes the camera may not stop immediately, so press and hold the `DP` button until you hear a _beep_ that signals the effective end of the script.

== Extended AEB ==

This script performs the same task as the _standard_ AEB option from the camera, but with a few nice enhancements:
 * Up to 9 shots may be specified.
 * The separation between shots is configurable up to +-6 EV.
 * The camera will take all the shots in a sequence, automatically.
 * User can specify the _direction_ of the sequence.

Supposing a configuration of 5 shots at 1EV separation, this is how each _direction_ is supposed to work:
 * `+/-` : One photo at current EV, and the rest above and below it: 0EV, +1EV, -1EV, +2EV, -2EV.
 * ` + ` : One photo at current EV, and the rest above it: 0EV, +1EV, +2EV, +3EV, +4EV.
 * ` - ` : One photo at current EV, and the rest below it: 0EV, -1EV, -2EV, -3EV, -4EV.

In 'M' mode with the aperture value set to `BULB`, this script will fire the camera as many times as needed (in this mode, the number of shots configured is irrelevant), with shutter speeds ranging from the "Bulb min:" value to the "Bulb max:" value, separating each shot by the "Step (EV)" value. Notice also that exposure times as long as 32 minutes can be used in this mode.

== Flash AEB ==

Similar to the [#Extended_AEB Extended AEB] script, but only the flash exposure compensation will change.

== ISO AEB ==

Camera will make a photograph for each ISO configured.

You probably want to set the camera to `M` mode prior to using this script.

== Intervalometer ==

This script will fire the camera as many times as configured (or endlessly), with a configurable delay between shots; use this script to create _stop-motion_ movies, for example.

Notice that `400plus` will always try to maintain a constant cadence of shots, independent of the exposure time: if configured to shot at 15s intervals, for example, then one shot will be taken exactly every 15s, even if the exposure is 10s. If one shot in the sequence has an exposure time longer than the configured interval time, `400plus` will skip as many shots as needed and reschedule the sequence. This comment is also true when the intervalometer is configured to fire any multi-shot action.

== Hand Waving ==

This script will fire the camera when the display-off sensor (at the rear of the camera) is triggered. Use this script to fire the camera without the need of a remote to help reduce camera shake. If the "Repeat" option is active, this script will not end after being triggered, but will repeat itself again so you can take more shots. By default, this script will wait until something (like your hand or finger) blocks the sensor and is then removed to fire the camera. However, if the "Instant" option is enabled, the script will fire the camera as soon as the sensor becomes blocked.

== Self Timer ==

This script simply adds a configurable pause before firing the camera.

= The presets =

A "preset" is a complete snapshot containing all of the camera settings and configuration parameters. Presets can be used to pre-configure the camera for a specific shooting situation (like "landscape", "portrait", "low-light", "birds-in-flight", etc.), and allow you to have quick access to these configurations while shooting. Presets are stored on the CF card itself. Up to 9 presets can be stored. The number of presets however is unlimited due to the fact you may use multiple CF cards each containing up to 9 presets.

== The A-DEP mode ==

Under normal circumstances, when a preset is loaded (recovered) all camera parameters are changed, even the AE mode. Take notice that the camera may then operate in an AE mode which is different from the AE mode currently selected with the mode dial. Yet when the camera is powered off and back on, it will revert to the actual AE mode that the mode dial is set to.

To solve this issue, there is an option to hijack the (mostly unused) A-DEP mode; when this option is active, the following changes will take place:
 * Presets can only be loaded when the camera is in A-DEP mode. Envision the word "Presets" instead of "A-DEP" on the mode dial.
 * When the camera is powered on in A-DEP mode, or when the user moves the mode dial to the A-DEP position, the last preset used is automatically loaded (recalled).

When this option is not enabled, then when the A-DEP position is selected with the mode dial the camera will use the A-DEP mode as it normally would.

= AutoISO =

`400plus` has support for AutoISO in creative modes, using our own algorithms. It works by reading the measurements that the camera makes, when you half-press the shutter button, and changing the ISO value acordingly. The behiviour of AutoISO is different for each creative mode, but the idea is roughtly the same: use the lowest possible ISO to maintain a suitable speed or aperture.

To enable AutoISO for the creative modes, activate it at the settings menu, or pres `DP` at the ISO selection dialog; to disable it, use the settings menu or select any ISO value at the ISO selection dialog. 

== AutoISO and Av mode ==

The intention of AutoISO in Av mode is to use the lowest possible ISO that ensures no motion blur.

In _normal_ Av mode, the user selects ISO and aperture, and the camera decides the shutter speed according to the scene. But when AutoISO is active, `400plus` sill always try to use the lowest possible ISO value (as configured by "Min ISO"), unless the shutter speed gets too low (as configured by "Min Tv"); when that happens, `400plus` will authomaticaly raise the ISO value (up to "Max ISO") as needed.

Please, note that when both Safety Shift and AutoISO are enabled, the camera could drop shutter speed below the configured "Min Tv", if "Max ISO" is reached, in order to maintain a correct exposure.

== AutoISO and Tv mode ==

In Tv mode, the intention of AutoISO is to use the lowest possible ISO that ensures an acceptable depth of field.

In Tv mode, AutoISO will try to keep ISO as low as possible (as configured by "Min ISO"), unless the scene requires an apperture larger than desired (as configured at "Max Av"); then, AutoISO will raise the ISO value (up to "Max ISO") as needed.

Please, note that you must set "Max Av" at most just above the maximum aperture of the lens that you're using. For example, if your lens is f/4, "Max Av" should be set no lower than f/5.6; take into account that zoom lenses can have different maximum apertures, depending on the focal length you are using. Otherwise, AutoISO will not function properly in Tv mode. Also, the comment about Safety Shif and AutoISO at Av mode applies at Tv mode, too.

== AutoISO and P mode ==

In P mode, AutoISO _tries_ to behave just like in Av mode, and raises the ISO value to keep a minimum shutter speed; but, as the camera decides both aperture and shutter speed in this mode, there is no guarantee that raising the ISO will increase shutter speed: it tends to work correctly for small values of "Min Tv", but for larger values the camera usually decides to close the diaphragm instead of selecting a faster shutter speed.

== AutoISO and M mode ==

In M mode, the behavior of AutoISO is completely different to other modes: in this case, the user selects both the aperture and the shutter speed, and `400plus` will set the exact ISO to match the scene. None of the configuration parameters affect AutoISO in M mode, and this is the only mode where intermediate ISO values are used.

To change the exposure compensation in M mode, use the `LEFT` and `RIGHT` keys while looking through the viewfinder.

= The AF-Pattern point selection =

400plus offers a range of additional AF-Pattern point selections instead of just the two (Manual AF point selection, Automatic selection) which are included standard in the camera. These additional AF-pattern point selections provide a wide range of multi-point selection patterns using different combinations of the 9 focus points for some creative AF capabilities.

To use the additional AF-Pattern point selections during shooting, press the `ZOOM IN` button to enter the _standard_ "AF-Point selection" dialog, then press the `ZOOM IN` button again to enter the new "AF-Pattern selection" dialog. Use the `UP`, `DOWN`, `LEFT`, `RIGHT`, and `SET` buttons to move around the different AF selection patterns available. Half-press the shutter release button to exit the dialog.

= The goodies =

The following *_goodies_* have been added to the camera to enhance its capabilities.

== In the basic zone ==

  * Use the `AV` button to toggle between image quality settings `JPEG`, `RAW`, and `JPEG+RAW`. Notice that quality and size are changed to "HIGH+L" each time this option is used.

== In the creative zone ==

  * In the ISO selection dialog, press `DP` to activate [#AutoISO AutoISO]); select any ISO value to deactivate it.
  * In the Metering mode selection dialog, press `DP` to set Spot metering (see [#Spot_metering_mode Notes / Spot metering mode]).
  * In the White balance selection dialog, press `DP` to set the user-defined white balance kelvin temperature.

= Other freebies =

Other changes to the camera behavior, not described above.

== The nose affair ==

While looking through the viewfinder, the `ISO` and `WB` buttons become inactive. This is done to prevent accidental changes to camera settings from pressing your nose (or cheek) up against the camera body.

== Multi-language support ==

Currently 400plus supports five (5) languages:

  * English
  * French
  * German
  * Italian
  * Spanish

The desire is to have 400plus be supported in as many languages as possible! If you are interested in assisting in the conversion of 400plus to a different language, we would certainly welcome your efforts. Let us know by making a request via the forum!

= Notes =

Some notes and comments.

== The _missing_ ISO-3200 ==

Previous versions of `400plus` supported ISO-3200; or more precisely, it _appeared_ to support it: while the camera displayed "3200" as the ISO value, images where actually being shot at ISO-3000. Latests versions of `400plus` correct this bug, and thus only values up to ISO-3000 are supported now.

Note, thus, that _an image shot at the new ISO-3000 will be exactly the same as if shot with the old ISO-3200_.

== Extended ISOs ==

_Non-standard_ ISO values are software-only calculated values, and technically offer little to no gain over shooting at the standard _base_ ISO values and later post-processing the image. They can be useful, however, when there is no time for any post-processing.

Please, notice that the camera will not always display the correct ISO value; for example, an image shot at ISO-3000 will show as ISO-3200 during the review.

== Spot metering mode ==

The spot metering mode is similar to the _standard_ "partial metering" mode, but the area included in the metering is smaller (approx. 3.5% of the center of the viewfinder vs. partial metering at approx. 9% of the center of the viewfinder). It works quite well when needed.

= Known bugs =

The following relevant bugs have been reported and confirmed:

 * Issue #130: Config not restored if camera shut down while script is running.
 * Issue #156: Autofocus Assist Beam not fired from 430EX when using extended AF patterns.
 * Issue #153: Standard menu flashes before shortcuts menu.